docs(raw-rsa-keyring): Raw RSA Keyring public/private key validation (#161)
awslabs/aws-encryption-sdk-specification: changes/2020-07-15_raw-rsa-keyring-public-private-key-validation/change.md

## Affected Specifications

This serves as a reference of all specification documents that this change affects.

| Specification                                                                                                                                             |
| --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| [Raw RSA Keyring](https://github.com/awslabs/aws-encryption-sdk-specification/blob/31b0534c4259aad365f048b73231545583389c67/framework/raw-rsa-keyring.md) |

## Affected Implementations

This serves as a reference for all implementations that this change affects.

| Language   | Repository                                                                            |
| ---------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| C          | [aws-encryption-sdk-c](https://github.com/aws/aws-encryption-sdk-c)                   |
| Javascript | [aws-encryption-sdk-javascript](https://github.com/aws/aws-encryption-sdk-javascript) |

## Definitions

> - "match", "matching pair" describe an interoperable RSA public key, and RSA private key
>   (i.e. a ciphertext encrypted by the public key can be decrypted by the private key)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
"match", "matching pair" describe an interoperable RSA public key and RSA private key
(i.e. a ciphertext encrypted by the public key can be decrypted by the private key)
```

### Conventions used in this document

The key words
"MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT",
"SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and "OPTIONAL"
in this document are to be interpreted as described in
[RFC 2119](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc2119).

## Summary

Add a requirement to the Raw RSA Keyring that if both the public key and the private key are defined,

> they MUST form a matching pair.

Reviewer: Is there a way for us to actually validate this without trying to encrypt/decrypt something?

I believe they SHOULD form a matching pair. If they don't, we MUST NOT succeed.

I'm a bit worried that if we say they MUST, there will be an implication that we check that this at keyring initialization time. Do we/ can we?

Clarify language in OnEncrypt and OnDecrypt to require failure, instead of the vague "MUST NOT succeed".

## Out of Scope

- All keyrings aside from the Raw RSA Keyring

> - The manner in which the Raw RSA Keyring is build/constructed/instantiated

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The manner in which the Raw RSA Keyring is initialized
```

- How to determine if a pair of keys match

## Motivation

A Raw RSA Keyring with mismatched keys is by construction unable to fulfill its decryption contract.

> As such, we should not allow such a keyring to be constructed.

Reviewer: I'm not totally sure about these statements. We're saying we cannot allow a keyring to be constructed with mismatched pairs, but we're also saying that determining if they're matched (the way we check this) is out of scope.

I'm worried this will lead to implementation differences (or potentially some languages where we can't do this as part of the keyring initialization process.

Reviewer 2: The problem is that the intention in `key name` is to uniquely identity the wrapping key.
So while it is possible to have have some kind of boundary keyring
that could decrypt with 1 private key only to encrypt with a non-matching pair,
to identify these things as the same makes things confusing.

I will say that if 2 customers are trying to interoperate
with a Raw RSA keyring that they have named the same thing
they MAY want to do _something_ like this.

But in this case, I would suggest that they create 2 keyrings.
One to decrypt and one to encrypt.
If these 2 keyrings have the same `name` values
but different RSA wrapping keys then the requirement is achieved
and the construction is clear.

Author: > We're saying we cannot allow a keyring to be constructed with mismatched pairs, but we're also saying that determining if they're matched (the way we check this) is out of scope.

The method for determining if keys match seems like an implementation detail to me.

> I'm worried this will lead to implementation differences (or potentially some languages where we can't do this as part of the keyring initialization process).

Are you concerned about different implementations allowing/disallowing certain keypairs? I don't think that's a concern, as long as each implementation checks correctly.

Language clarification around failure is needed,
as previous language "MUST NOT succeed" could imply a non-failure response is valid

> (such as returning encryption/decryption materials unmodified).

Reviewer: We can flip this language and say "We MUST only succeed if the keyring was initialized with matching pairs" or something similar and solve this problem without needing to check if the pairs match at initialization.

Reviewer: From @seebees 's comment above, not every language has a way to do this easily. I'm incredibly worried this will be both burdensome to ESDK developers and be prone to bugs in complex implementations in order to satisfy this requirement.

Author: I don't think any runtime has a way to do this easily. If we don't want to require the check, we should have a conversation about whether we want one at all.

## Drawbacks

This change will break customers who are using the Raw RSA Keyring with a non-matching keypair.
However, this is not use case we should encourage.

## Security Implications

This change SHOULD NOT have any security implications.

## Operational Implications

> This change SHOULD NOT have any operational implications.

Reviewer 2: If it is a breaking change how can it have no operational implications?

## Guide-level Explanation

> When you attempt to create a Raw RSA Keyring with both a public and private key,

Reviewer 2: Why?  Add some language about how we intend key name/namespace to be used.
I added a comment above about the idea that these values SHOULD
uniquely identify a wrapping key.

the ESDK MUST check to ensure the keys match.
If they keys to not match, the creation operation MUST fail.

## Reference-level Explanation

> - A check MUST be added in the operation which creates a Raw RSA Keyring

Reviewer 2: MUST?  You have SHOULD above?
